Oh, yes, I have a long history with all these ideas, so do let me wax prolix if not eloquent!

 

paragraph 1

more empirically, the number of galaxy pairs and obviously distorted ones suggests

that the processes are important even lacking a full scheme for galaxy formation and

structure growth (Toomre's 1977 estimate of merger rates and number of ellipticals),

as much as people like to connect everything everywhere all at once.

 

para 2: dynamical time sometimes can also mean crossing time, circumference over velocity... so

be explicit what we use it for

 

para 3 also mix various geometries and sets of pre-encounter galaxy properties

 

para 4 some galaxies will be truly far apart and essentially noninteracting (M31 and the Milky Way seen from some

directions or worse). Estimates of the effet go back at least to Karachentsev circa 1987,

(a couple of us translated his book in https://ned.ipac.caltech.edu/level5/Sept02/Keel/frames.html)

showing that the number of interlopers among undistorted galaxies can be a significant fraction of the

total catalogued possible pairs. (I figure that this is connected to the fact that galaxy pairs and mergers have

only a very subtle signature on the correlation function). As a result, the effects in the

undistorted "approach phase" subsample may be significantly diluted by such pseudopairs, and

you can't just ignore undistorted pairs since simulations show that some approach directions/speeds

leave galaxies almost undistorted until near closest approach. (As Gene Byrd was fond of saying,

kinematic distortions must precede morphological ones).

 

2.1 paragraph 2 - how many input sample systems were not in the COSMOS2020 catalog, and is it clear

why they do not have matches?

 

2.2 para 3 incorrect primary = fainter pair member at center of cutout?

 

2.2 para 5 - for high z, it gets even worse as the (1+z)^4 "Tolman" cosmological dimming drops the

surface brightness (by 2^4=16x at z=1), making it progressively harder to detect tidal features.


 Fig 1B: is the secondary the large galaxy at the left edge or the small round one partially superimposed

 on the lower left edge of the elongated central galaxy? Lower contrast or log/sinh scaling might make

such cases clearer (oh, sure, bring this up now).

 

 Fig. 2 - the sample has so few systems above z=1.0 that they must not affect the conclusions significantly.


 3.1 - do you want to say out loud that these classifications are (well-)motivated by simulations?

OTOH there may be degeneracy between encounters with large impact parameters and earlier stages

of deeper encounters. Getting into that indetail goes in the direction of matching tidal features to a

simulation library, which is Beyond the Scope of This Work. For the final merging category - in simulations,

tidal tails may outlast a distinct second distinct core (since crossing times are so much faster near the

remnant nucleus) giving things like NGC 7252. Might some of these show up in your apocentric category,

possibly diluting the desired SF and AGN signals, or is it really defined to avoid late postmerger stages?

(Oops, never mind, I just saw that you discuss this at length in the following paragraphs - Fig. 5 is

 reassuring).


    A related issue comes in later - translating dynamical stages into years should at least factor in stellar

    mass and ideally radial scale of the components (but this uncertainty may be swamped by the range in

    orbital parameters that are unavoidably grouped together)

   

3.3 para 2 - does the 10" matching radius include a significant number of other galaxies (mostly the other

pair members) beyond the AGN sought? Would a smaller radius better reflect astrometric uncertainties,

or is the position from the optical catalogs sometimes significantly off the nucleus so this radius

accounts for it?

3.3 end - does the need for Chandra or VLA matches mean that star-forming galaxies are underrepresented in

the matched sample so care is needed to interpret the fraction of galaxies with AGN, or is the denominator

in that ratio taken from the entire sample?

 

In all the figures showing points of different colors, to my eye it would be easier to interpret with larger

marker sizes so the color is more obvious. Your mileage may vary (or kilometrage outside the USA?).

 

section 4.1 para 2 - the red cloud galaxies have to turn into something - does this imply SF from gas

previously not in the right state, or feeding of new gas supplies? (The latter could be from restructuring of the

CGM as well as actual mass transfer between the galaxies)

                para 8 - that fits with the repeated finding that ULIRGs at low z are essentially confined to ongoing

                mergers near the coalescence point. (This holds whether a starburst or AGN is dominant, and it's

                probably important that it's so often hard to tell which one produces more of the energy). Same point for

                section 5.3.

 

section 5: I can barely read this for pounding my head at the realization that (since I led a paper on the

topic in 1985) we actually have not achieved consensus in the field about AGN triggering during interactions.

Everything seems to be desperately sensitive to the details of sample selection.

 

5.3 para 5: line 1 - separation distributions? How does that work for the controls?

      - did the comparison in SR use medians, or dividing the mean of binned distributions or something?

 

 

Section 5 end: delay in AGN ignition compared to what? Coalescence, apogalacticon, the rise in SFR?

 

6.2 oara 2 - the Schawinski et al. result could be taken to suggest that changing the duty cycle of

AGN being in a luminous state could be enough to produce most of the inferred enhancement. This could

happen (off the top of my head) by changing the gas supply in the circumnuclear region.

 

So nice to get all those off my chest!